WebKit/Source/platform/graphics/compositing/README.md, before:

# `Source/platform/graphics/compositing`

This directory contains the implementation of the "Blink compositing algorithm".

This code is owned by the [paint team][paint-team-site].
[paint-team-site]: https://www.chromium.org/developers/paint-team

This document explains the SPv2 world as it develops, not the SPv1 world it
replaces.

## Blink compositing algorithm

Design document: goo.gl/6xP8Oe

Inputs: `PaintArtifact`
Outputs: List of `cc::Layer` objects and `cc::PropertyTree`'s.

The algorithm walks through the list of `PaintChunks` in the `PaintArtifact`,
allocating new `c::Layers` if the `PaintChunk` cannot merge into an existing
`cc::Layer`. The reasons why it would not be able to do so are:

1. The `PaintChunk` requires a foreign layer (see below)

2. The `PaintChunk` cannot merge with any existing layer, due incompatible
direct compositing reasons on its `PropertyTreeState`.

3. The `PaintChunk` overlaps with an earlier `cc::Layer` that it can't merge with
due to reason 2, and there is no later-drawn `cc::Layer` for which reasons 1 and
2 do not apply.

In the worst case, this algorithm has an O(n^2) running time, where n is the
number of `PaintChunks`.

All property tree nodes referred to by any `PaintChunk` are currently copied
into their equivalent `cc::PropertyTree` node, regardless of whether they are
required by the above.

### Flattening property tree nodes

When `PaintChunks` can merge into an existing `cc::Layer`, they may have
different `PropertyTreeState`s than the `PropertyTreeState` of the `cc::Layer`.
If so, we need to *flatten* down the nodes that are different between the
`PropertyTreeState` of the `PaintChunk` and the `cc::Layer`. This is done
by iterating over the "innermostNode" of the `PropertyTreeState`, finding
the sequence of transform, clip and effect nodes that need to be flattened,
and turning them into a sequence of paired display items representing the
transforms, clips and effects. The algorithm for this is spelled out in
the designdoc at http://goo.gl/6xP8Oe.

### Foreign layers

Some `PaintChunk` content requires a foreign layer, meaning a layer that is
managed outside of the scope of this code. Examples are composited video, a
and 2D/3D (WebGL) canvas.

### Raster invalidations

Any raster invalidates on a `PaintChunk` are also mapped to the space of the
backing `cc::Layer`.

Commit message:

Remove PropertyTreeState::GetInnermostNode
This code was replaced by a new approach in [1] and is no longer used. The
README.md has been updated to refer to the new description found in
ConversionContext::Convert.

[1] https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/f62169afa7f911143f50059c52ac0d9442284e96

Bug: 740678
Cq-Include-Trybots: master.tryserver.chromium.linux:linux_layout_tests_slimming_paint_v2
Change-Id: If26626568df7cb4cf342a55366b8b86d07a794f2
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/592155
Reviewed-by: Chris Harrelson <chrishtr@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Philip Rogers <pdr@chromium.org>
Cr-Original-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#490559}
Cr-Mirrored-From: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src
Cr-Mirrored-Commit: f34f89d41a332a0bb31b34f0e51d9e494b37f912

WebKit/Source/platform/graphics/compositing/README.md, after:

# `Source/platform/graphics/compositing`

This directory contains the implementation of the "Blink compositing algorithm".

This code is owned by the [paint team][paint-team-site].
[paint-team-site]: https://www.chromium.org/teams/paint-team

This document explains the SPv2 world as it develops, not the SPv1 world it
replaces.

## Blink compositing algorithm

Design document: goo.gl/6xP8Oe

Inputs: `PaintArtifact`
Outputs: List of `cc::Layer` objects and `cc::PropertyTree`'s.

The algorithm walks through the list of `PaintChunks` in the `PaintArtifact`,
allocating new `c::Layers` if the `PaintChunk` cannot merge into an existing
`cc::Layer`. The reasons why it would not be able to do so are:

1. The `PaintChunk` requires a foreign layer (see below)

2. The `PaintChunk` cannot merge with any existing layer, due incompatible
direct compositing reasons on its `PropertyTreeState`.

3. The `PaintChunk` overlaps with an earlier `cc::Layer` that it can't merge with
due to reason 2, and there is no later-drawn `cc::Layer` for which reasons 1 and
2 do not apply.

In the worst case, this algorithm has an O(n^2) running time, where n is the
number of `PaintChunks`.

All property tree nodes referred to by any `PaintChunk` are currently copied
into their equivalent `cc::PropertyTree` node, regardless of whether they are
required by the above.

### Flattening property tree nodes

When `PaintChunks` can merge into an existing `cc::Layer`, they may have
different `PropertyTreeState`s than the `PropertyTreeState` of the `cc::Layer`.
If so, we need to *flatten* down the nodes that are different between the
`PropertyTreeState` of the `PaintChunk` and the `cc::Layer`. This is done by
emitting paired display items to adjust the `PaintChunk`s property tree state
to the current state when the `PaintChunk` is consumed. See:
[`ConversionContext::Convert`](compositing/PaintChunksToCcLayer.cpp).

### Foreign layers

Some `PaintChunk` content requires a foreign layer, meaning a layer that is
managed outside of the scope of this code. Examples are composited video, a
and 2D/3D (WebGL) canvas.

### Raster invalidations

Any raster invalidates on a `PaintChunk` are also mapped to the space of the
backing `cc::Layer`.
